Welcome to day 14 a day that is really going to take you to a new level because you are going to learn
how to use Python to do facial recognition.
Facial recognition is a way to identify a person or confirm that a person's identity by their face through
photos, videos or cameras in real time.
Nowadays, facial recognition or facial biometrics is being used in numerous areas of life and is projected
to become more widespread in the future, making it an area of programming in which job opportunities
will be expanded.
It is currently used in phone unlocking security forces, airport and border, secure and control,
searching for missing persons, detection of conflictive persons in retail stores, banking operations,
monitoring of restricted people in casinos, work attendance, control and much, much more.
Today, you are going to create an application to control and register the entry of employees to their
workplace through facial recognition.
By camera, your program will be able to see the people who stand in front of your computer's webcam.
It will recognize their identity and register in a spreadsheet who that person is and at what time they
were identified.
For this, we will first learn the basics of how facial biometrics works so that we can use this powerful
technology in any application we can think of.
But how does facial recognition technically work?
By comparing the faces of people passing in front of a special camera with the image of people in a
checklist.
Checklist can contain pictures of any person, for example, employees of a company.
In general, the process tends to be like this.
Step one Facial recognition.
The camera detects and locates the image of a face, either from a person being by themselves or in
the middle of a crowd step to facial analysis.
The image of the face is captured and analyzed.
The software reads the faces geometry, taking into account several key factors, such as the distance
between the eyes, the depth of the eye sockets, the distance from the forehead to the chin, the shape
of the cheekbones, the contour of the lips, ears and chin.
The goal is to identify facial landmarks that are key to distinguishing a unique face.
Step three Image to Data Conversion.
The face capture process transforms analog information a face into a set of digital information data
based on the person's facial features.
Basically, the face analysis is converted into a mathematical formula.
The numerical code is called Hog Hog, which stands for histograms of oriented gradients for human detection.
And it's basically the fingerprint of your face.
In the same way that your fingerprints are unique, each person has their own facial print step for
finding a match.
The facial print is compared to a database of other known faces.
If the facial print matches an image in the facial recognition database, then a determination will
be made.
Facial recognition is considered to be one of the most natural and least intrusive forms of identification,
as we normally recognize ourselves and others by looking at faces rather than fingerprints or irises.
In a few seconds, if you click on the video below, you're going to be programming a facial recognition
application.